if I asked you how well the economy is
doing you're going to give me a
different answer than somebody else it's
always a mixed bag there's always some
different information out there but when
people are using their home or their
401K their retirement account as an ATM
that is a red flag a warning signal of a
problem but guess what that's happening
today you came here for the truth so let
me unveil that for you in today's video
we are going to look at the economy
looking at anecdotal evidence looking at
the documented facts and I'm going to
bring that all to you as quick as I
possibly can let's bring it right now
starting with this consumer Prices rose
0.4% in February and 3.2% from a year
ago so we look at these prices look
they've never stopped prices keep going
up and inflation is becoming such a big
problem that we're hearing about it
everywhere I ask everybody I can in
every Walk of Life no matter where they
live around the world remember I am
somebody that's hearing from people that
are liter live literally all over the
world and I ask them questions as much
as possible I annoy them okay and I try
to dig this information up and then
bring that to you you got to understand
this I am an aggregator of data on all
levels government information news
articles I get it directly from people
I'm looking at every Source I possibly
can I don't necessarily show that in
every video but understand that I'm
bringing that to you these articles are
really just a prop so I can you know
give you the information you need to
know and you're seeing that inflation
has gone wild everywhere it's not
stopping and in fact it will likely be a
much bigger problem in the future and
that's why I'll share with you what is
going to happen in in the future as a
result of this just stick with me okay
so yes the core prices they they measure
it in different ways it will will remove
the quote unquote volatile food and
energy you notice they say that every
time they say food and energy they stick
this word in front of it called you know
they put
volatile it's nonsense okay look CEO of
hapag ly one of the world's top ocean
shippers says the Outlook has changed
for the global economy interesting stuff
as they say inventories are depleted in
many cases and the ocean carrier has
seen a recovery after Chinese New Year
now something important to note I was um
as I record this um I had my Sunday
business live session okay so during uh
these calls we look at ev Everything uh
in terms of business one of the things
that we did was we were looking at the
imports and exports of
Nike and I saw through like 2021 into
about
2023 Nike had this massive surge of uh
products that they were basically
importing into the United States okay
and I show people how to do that on the
on the business live sessions so they
had this massive absolutely massive
search month after month after month
after month and then it died off okay
stating that basically their inventories
just piled up like crazy and then
suddenly there was no requirement for
that anymore too much stuff as I say all
the time to joke too many yoga pants so
if Lulu lemon can't sell all those yoga
pants cuz they ordered 42 million of
them well what are they going to do well
they're going to try to liquidate that
and this happens and you see businesses
like you know Marshals or whatever they
they can use those type of companies to
kind of liquidate them not necessarily
Lululemon but other companies will use
them to be able to liquidate I think TJ
Maxx does that there's all those kinds
so um just understand what's happening
here that if this is the sign that now
we have finally depleted those
inventories well then we're going to see
those start to uh happen again and that
will be determined by the Imports and
the exports we're going to see that data
show up and we're going to look at the
freight okay so Freight is going to give
us a a sign of what's happening with the
consumer so stick with me you don't
necessarily have to join the business
live uh because that's for people who
want to build a business and get out of
the the rout race and everything
but uh just stick with me on the channel
because I'll bring you as much data as I
possibly can fuel prices are surging
with Supply risks ahead disruptions in
the world's major trade routes refiner
closures and resurgent demand are
pushing up Global fuel prices and making
forecast difficult uh with the whole you
know election coming up this is a big
issue okay people are concerned they
obviously should be and so they're
saying hey you know usually what happens
is they frustrated with one party they
vote the other one and then they're
frustrated with that party and they vote
the other one uh well assuming that
elections are real um yeah so increases
the two increases in the two most
consumed fuels are outpacing those for
crude oil on some of the world's most
important markets and so we see that at
this time hurting people and there's no
question about it and what is the
response well here we go more Americans
are treating their 401ks like cash
machines automatic enrollment has swept
more workers into 401K accounts given
them some savings to draw in on
emergencies think about that um they
have this thing with their work their
work says hey we're automatically going
to put some money aside for you that's
fine that's people do that okay great
why do they do that sometimes the
employer will say will match your
contributions this is something that I
would definitely never advise oh it's
free money
uh you have to learn how to make money
okay that that's this is not a good way
to make
money regardless people are doing that
and they're saying hey that was extra
money I had I can now pull from that and
I'll show you right here um as they say
in showing this chart here pulling money
out share of participants taking early
401K withdrawals due to economic
hardship and that's like they're showing
all the way from 2018 it's been
essentially Rising every year because
people need that cash they wouldn't be
taking from that if they didn't need it
okay so they're spending money
everywhere and I'm not saying like
people could just be terrible with their
money they could be just going on
vacations they could be buying the flat
screen TVs whatever they could be buying
the new Apple goggles or whatever like
enjoy okay have fun with that great but
um likely they're just dealing with the
effects of inflation right nearly 40% of
those who took hardship distribution
last year did So to avoid foreclosure
compared with 36% in 2026 in 2023 more
than 75% of hardship distributions total
$5,000 or less so they're pulling out
money and it's not a big amount we'll
see what happens you know are they just
doing it once and then doing it again
and doing it again I don't know all the
rules there uh but this is a concern and
we'll see as that Trend continues or
does that dissipate uh right now that's
not a good sign they're avoid voiding
foreclosure by pulling money out of
their 401K of course you do whatever you
have to but a bad sign of what's
happening and you get this all the time
look I see these articles every day
recession odds are very high as the
economy looks poised to see unemployment
wave and plunging consumer spending yeah
yeah yeah we we get this all the time uh
somebody's willing to say this recession
odds are so high look we're already you
know we're where are we halfway through
March
where is this recession they keep
talking about recession where is it
where is it is it now in
2025 okay they they haven't even needed
to cut rates at this point so where is
it where's that recession I want to know
okay laid off techies face sense of
impending doom with job cuts at the
highest since the Doom crash there were
way too many to begin with the companies
made such ridiculous like during 2020
they were like I we're just going to
hire everybody
that was there's n there's nonsense it's
just nonsense they were hiring way too
many people uh and so now they're but
the the crazy part is the stocks have
done so well as they've been firing
people that has made investors very
happy because they're reducing cost okay
increasing productivity they like to say
this was sent to me by a subscriber top
five trending near me searches in the
Washington DC area look at number two
pawn shop near me isn't that funny how
people are looking for pawn shop they
they're selling their stuff now I think
by the way that if you got stuff laying
around you should be getting rid of that
transfer that into something that you
need or pay down your bad debt whatever
it is and by the way one of the
solutions that I have is that you've got
friends you got family that have stuff
you know they have stuff and you could
make deals them say look I'll do
everything I'll put that on eBay I'll
put that on Facebook Marketplace I will
get rid of that for you and I'll give
you 50% you're just just sit in there or
make a you know percentage whatever you
think but the point is you could be
selling other people's things that you
know it's collecting dust and you could
be getting that cash and then converting
that into either an asset or paying down
your debt don't make an excuse about
this okay you got to work hard the world
world is set up for you to fail you
realize this the whole thing is set up
for you to fail if you live in a western
country you probably got a lot of social
uh like some sort of safety net for you
which some remember this a lot of
countries don't have that and so you've
got things that you can fall back on
you've got food banks there there are
things that you can do but we've got to
put in all the effort that we can okay I
teach people how to build businesses
online businesses and then how we go off
online which is interesting but you got
to do whatever you can when you've got
nothing you got to make it happen when
you got skills you got to use those
skills and then just to finish it off
China doubles down on manufacturing
leaving real estate behind so what
they're doing with their economy is
they're kind of trying to say okay well
clearly we way we way
overbuilt there's this say let's deal
with that that's a whole different thing
but we need to focus on our
manufacturing and export
and so all of that could be happening at
the same time what I talked about at the
beginning which is basically that uh for
a lot of
people
they you know they're they're basically
the the consumer is there they're buying
those those yoga pant and stuff maybe
and the inventory is depleting and so
we'll see on those Imports and those
exports if the numbers start making
sense when we compare it with China's
Manufacturing data China's export data
okay so I'll bring that all to you in
the coming days the weeks and the months
hit that thumbs up button so that you
are notified of the videos when they
come through if you want to be a part of
the business life or the finance life
where I'm getting information to people
that they just can't get anywhere else
okay this is where you got to be link is
in the description below I hope that
you'll join me on there I'm streamline
in the process as we go through as I get
feedback from people I've made it much
better the people who were in the
original group um many of them most of
them are still there but like it's been
progressively so much better throughout
I've been able to improve and I've been
trying my best to always bring the
top-notch information if you're
interested hit that link in the
description don't forget to hit that
thumbs up button on the way out I want
to see you back here tomorrow make sure
you search for the money GPS I probably
won't end up in your feed I want to see
you tomorrow take care